Chapter 7. Automation
Using chunks
When working with typical data sets, automation of general processing workflow allows to perform 
routine operations efficiently. Metashape allows to assign several processing steps to be run one by one 
without user intervention thanks to Batch Processing feature. Manual user intervention can be 
minimized even further due to 'multiple chunk project' concept, each chunk to include one typical data 
set. For a project with several chunks of the same nature, common operations available in Batch 
Processing dialog are applied to each selected chunk individually, thus allowing to set several data sets 
for automatic processing following predefined workflow pattern.
In addition, multiple chunk project could be useful when it turns out to be hard or even impossible to 
generate a 3D model of the whole scene in one go. This could happen, for instance, if the total amount 
of photographs is too large to be processed at a time. To overcome this difficulty Metashape offers a 
possibility to split the set of photos into several separate chunks within the same project. Alignment of 
photos, building dense point cloud, building mesh, and forming texture atlas operations can be 
performed for each chunk separately and then resulting 3D models can be combined together.
Working with chunks is not more difficult than using Metashape following the general workflow. In 
fact, in Metashape always exists at least one active chunk and all the 3D model processing workflow 
operations are applied to this chunk.
To work with several chunks you need to know how to create chunks and how to combine resulting 3D 
models from separate chunks into one model.
Creating a chunk
To create new chunk click on the  Add Chunk toolbar button on the Workspace pane or select Add 
Chunk command from the Workspace context menu (available by right-clicking on the root element on 
the Workspace pane).
After the chunk is created you may load photos in it, align them, generate dense point cloud, generate 
mesh surface model, build texture atlas, export the models at any stage and so on. The models in the 
chunks are not linked with each other.
The list of all the chunks created in the current project is displayed in the Workspace pane along with 
flags reflecting their status.
The following flags can appear next to the chunk name: 
R (Referenced)
Indicates that 3D model in the chunk was referenced. Also will appear when two or more chunks 
are aligned with each other. See information on how to reference the model in Setting coordinate 
system.
S (Scaled)
Indicates that 3D model in the chunk was scaled based on scale bars information only, with no 
reference coordinates data being present. See information on scale bar placement in Optimization
section. 
Page 1 of 7Chapter 7. Automation
29/05/2026mk:@MSITStore:C:\Program%20Files\Agisoft\Metashape%20Pro\help\metashape.chm::...
T (Transformed)
Indicates that 3D model has been modified manually with at least one of the following 
instruments:  Rotate object,  Move object or  Scale object. 
To move photos from one chunk to another simply select them in the list of photos on the Workspace
pane, and then drag and drop to the target chunk.
Working with chunks
All operations within the chunk are carried out following the common workflow: loading photographs, 
aligning them, generating dense point cloud, building mesh, building texture atlas, exporting 3D model 
and so on.
Note that all these operations are applied to the active chunk. When a new chunk is created it is activated 
automatically. Save project operation saves the content of all chunks. To save selected chunks as a 
separate project use Save Chunks command from the chunk context menu.
To set another chunk as active
1. Right-click on the chunk title on the Workspace pane. 
2. Select Set Active command from the context menu.
To remove chunk
1. Right-click on the chunk title on the Workspace pane. 
2. Select Remove Chunks command from the context menu.
To rearrange the order of chunks in the Workspace pane simply drag and drop the chunks in the pane.
Aligning chunks
After the "partial" 3D models are built in several chunks they can be merged together. Before merging 
chunks they need to be aligned.
To align separate chunks
1. Select Align Chunks command from the Workflow menu. 
2. In the Align Chunks dialog box select chunks to be aligned, indicate reference chunk with a 
double-click. Set desired alignment options. Click OK button when done. 
3. The progress dialog box will appear displaying the current processing status. To cancel processing 
click the Cancel button.
Aligning chunks parameters
Note
l Chunk can contain several instances of the same object (point clouds, 3D 
model, etc).
Page 2 of 7Chapter 7. Automation
29/05/2026mk:@MSITStore:C:\Program%20Files\Agisoft\Metashape%20Pro\help\metashape.chm::...
"Align Chunks" dialog
The following parameters control the chunks alignment procedure and can be modified in the Align 
Chunks dialog box:
Method
Defines the chunks alignment method. Point based method aligns chunks by matching photos 
across all the chunks. Marker based method uses markers as common points for different chunks. 
The details on using markers are available in the Setting coordinate system section. Camera 
based method is used to align chunks based on estimated camera locations. Corresponding 
cameras should have the same label. 
Accuracy (Point based alignment only)
Higher accuracy setting helps to obtain more accurate chunk alignment results. Lower accuracy 
setting can be used to get the rough chunk alignment in the shorter time. 
Point limit (Point based alignment only)
The number indicates upper limit of feature points on every image to be taken into account during 
Point based chunks alignment. 
Fix scale
Option is to be enabled in case the scales of the models in different chunks were set precisely and 
should be left unchanged during chunks alignment process. 
Preselect image pairs (Point based alignment only)
The alignment process of many chunks may take a long time. A significant portion of this time is 
spent for matching of detected features across the photos. Image pair preselection option can 
speed up this process by selection of a subset of image pairs to be matched. 
Apply mask to (Point based alignment only)
If apply mask to key points option is selected, areas previously masked on the photos are 
excluded from feature detection procedure. Apply mask to tie points option means that 
certain tie points are excluded from alignment procedure. Effectively this implies that if some area 
Page 3 of 7Chapter 7. Automation
29/05/2026mk:@MSITStore:C:\Program%20Files\Agisoft\Metashape%20Pro\help\metashape.chm::...
is masked at least on a single photo, relevant key points on the rest of the photos picturing the 
same area will be also ignored during alignment procedure (a tie point is a set of key points which 
have been matched as projections of the same 3D point on different images). This can be useful to 
be able to suppress background in turntable shooting scenario with only one mask. For additional 
information on the usage of masks please refer to the Using masks section.
Merging chunks
After alignment is complete the separate chunks can be merged into a single chunk.
To merge chunks
1. Select Merge Chunks command from the Workflow menu. 
2. In the Merge Chunks dialog box select chunks to be merged and the desired merging options. 
Click OK button when done. 
3. Metashape will merge the separate chunks into one. The merged chunk will be displayed in the 
project content list on Workspace pane.
Merge chunks parameters
"Merge Chunks" dialog
The following parameters control the chunks merging procedure and can be modified in the Merge 
Note
l Chunk alignment can be performed only for chunks containing aligned photos. 
l There is no need to perform chunk alignment for georeferenced chunks, as they 
are already in the same coordinate frame.
Note
l We recommend processing all the images in a single chunk to provide better 
accuracy and quality of the final results than the chunking method (separate 
processing of the sub-sets of the complete photos set and merging them). 
Page 4 of 7Chapter 7. Automation
29/05/2026mk:@MSITStore:C:\Program%20Files\Agisoft\Metashape%20Pro\help\metashape.chm::...
Chunks dialog box:
Merge dense clouds
Defines if dense clouds from the selected chunks are combined. 
Merge models
Defines if models from the selected chunks are combined. 
Merge DEMs
Defines if DEMs from the selected chunks are combined. 
Merge depth maps
Defines if depth maps from the selected chunks are combined. 
Merge tie points
Defines if the projections of the tie points for corresponding features should be merged. Since tie 
points merging operation assumes re-matching of the features from different chunks, the operation 
may be time consuming. Thus it is recommended to disable tie points merging, unless it is 
required by the task specifics. 
Merge markers
Defines if markers from the selected chunks are merged (only markers with the same labels would 
be merged). 
Merge orthomosaics
Defines if orthomosaics from the selected chunks are combined.
Chunks merging result (i.e. photos, point clouds and geometry) will be stored in the new chunk and it 
may be treated as an ordinary chunk (e.g. the model can be textured and/or exported).
Batch processing
Metashape allows to perform general workflow operations with multiple chunks automatically. It is 
useful when dealing with a large number of chunks to be processed.
Batch processing can be applied to all chunks in the Workspace, to unprocessed chunks only, or to the 
chunks selected by the user. Each operation chosen in the Batch processing dialog will be applied to 
every selected chunk before processing will move on to the next step. 
Note
l Dense cloud and model merging operations will be applied only to the active 
items. Disabled (inactive) items will not be transferred to the merged chunk.
General Workflow Import/Export Miscellaneous
Align Photos Import Masks Align Chunks
Build DEM Import Shapes Calibrate Colors
Build Dense Cloud Export Cameras Classify Ground Points
Build Mesh Export DEM Classify Points
Build Orthomosaic Export Orthomosaic Close Holes
Build Panorama Export Points Colorize Dense Cloud
Build Texture Export Texture Colorize Model
Build Tiled Model Export Tiled Model Convert Images
Generate Report Decimate Mesh
Page 5 of 7Chapter 7. Automation
29/05/2026mk:@MSITStore:C:\Program%20Files\Agisoft\Metashape%20Pro\help\metashape.chm::...
To start batch processing
1. Select Batch Process... command from the Workflow menu. 
2. Click Add to add the desired processing stages. 
3. In the Add Job dialog select the kind of operation to be performed, the list of chunks it should be 
applied to, and desired processing parameters. Click OK button when done. 
4. Repeat the previous steps to add other processing steps as required. 
5. Arrange jobs by clicking Up and Down arrows at the right of the Batch Process... dialog box. 
6. Click OK button to start processing. 
7. The progress dialog box will appear displaying the list and status of batch jobs and current 
operation progress. To cancel processing click the Cancel button.
"Batch Process" dialog
Detect Fiducials
Detect Markers
Generate Masks
Generate Prescription Map
Load Project
Merge Chunks
Optimize Alignment
Refine Mesh
Remove Lighting
Reset Region
Run Script
Sample Points
Save Project
Smooth Model
Page 6 of 7Chapter 7. Automation
29/05/2026mk:@MSITStore:C:\Program%20Files\Agisoft\Metashape%20Pro\help\metashape.chm::...
When the batch process includes import/export features that are applied to multiple chunks it is 
reasonable to use the following templates in the Path field of the import/export jobs: 
l {filename}- filename (without extension), 
l {fileext}- file extension, 
l {camera}- camera label, 
l {frame}- frame index, 
l {chunklabel}- chunk label, 
l {imagefolder}- folder containing images of an active chunk, 
l {projectfolder}- path to the folder containing current project, 
l {projectname}- current project filename, 
l {projectpath}- absolute path to the current project.
The list of tasks for batch processing can be exported to XML structured file using  Save button in the 
Batch processing dialog and imported in a different project using  Open button.
Page 7 of 7Chapter 7. Automation
29/05/2026mk:@MSITStore:C:\Program%20Files\Agisoft\Metashape%20Pro\help\metashape.chm::...